Welcome back in this lesson we're going to be writing some more a javascript code.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to use that script G-S file that I opened up earlier and I'm actually
going to close off indexing going to work off of that script.
Jay X-File So we know that from our previous lesson that we linked our file we've got them on the same
directory so make sure as well when you're linking to the G-S file that depending on where the file
is located that you've got the proper path.
So it might not always be the case that you're doing the javascript the same level as you're doing your
index page.
So make sure that if you've got scripts folder or if you've got some other folders on your site that
your property linking to it as well as if you're linking to an external library then make sure that
you're also creating that correct path or you've got the absolute path to get to that file so you're
not throwing any errors.
So this is always a good idea to create some type of simple javascript that's visible.
So you know that you're actually connected to the Javascript.
So now I've opened up that script g s file and I'm ready to start typing some Javascript.
And we know that the file is somewhere down here at the bottom.
And earlier we saw how we can type alert and we can whenever we load the page we see that this javascript
fires off and we get this alert message happening and showing up within the page and basically says
this page says hello again.
So I'm going to show you some more tips about writing javascript as well as how javascript works.
So another thing that we can do with javascript.
We can also write information to the web page.
And this is a really big part of javascript because this gives us the ability to actually interact with
our Web page content.
And now when I refreshed the page we get that halo message but we also have hello world written down
here at the bottom.
So notice that wherever that script tag is that's linked to this script yes file is located that's where
within our H.T. mail our content gets written out.
So basically it's not a great way to write out content onto your web page by doing document right.
I just want to show you that this is one of the ways that we can typically create some type of dynamic
content being generated within our Web page and it could be as simple as this that we're just adding
some content that's not actually existing within the source code.
And after the page loads runs the javascript then that content gets added.
So the other thing that you might have noticed if you're looking really closely you could see that I've
got double quotes here.
I've got single quotes down here and really at the end of the day it doesn't matter which quotes you're
using.
You can use single you can use double and not actually just add double double quote with a single.
So it's hard to remove that.
But this will work the same way.
And when we render up the page we see the hello again.
So either way if you're writing with single or double You're free to use either one as long as you're
encapsulating those string characters.
So if you didn't write those quotes then javascript actually would throw an error because it wouldn't
actually know what to do with that.
So we see that we're not actually getting that information being output there.
And that's because we've got an error.
So we're actually missing some information between the argument list and we are going to talk more about
that in the upcoming lesson.
We talk about console log and debugging.
So we know that this isn't proper in Javascript does it like that once rendering.
So it throws an error.
So now I've updated that fix that we can go back to our page.
And now again we'll see that our page loads.
So this is another important thing to note that when I had an error in my javascript we noticed that
it didn't actually render out the alert because the javascript threw an error and it stopped executing
the code.
So once you have an error where there is something that javascript just can't make can't make out what
it needs to do with that command that is going to stop executing the code.
So always keep that in mind that if you're going to your web page and something isn't happening that
you've got in your javascript and you don't know why that's where you open up the console.
And if he if you're throwing an error you're going to see that within the con..
So another thing about javascript is that I can have a number of whitespace here and when I reload the
page it doesn't actually make any difference.
So javascript ignores the whitespace and it doesn't actually matter to the javascript if I've got my
code like that although it's a lot harder to read when you're a web developer when you're coming in
so it's not really advisable that you add all of this whitespace in.
But for demonstration purposes it really doesn't matter to the browser where this spacing is air.
If you're adding in tabs so you can add in tabs as well.
You can move your content in and out and tabs are usually used for writing.
Code.
So typically we do it in a branching type structure where we have our main javascript statements and
then if we've got a function or a loop and we've got some additional code running in those and I am
going to talk about those in the upcoming lessons.
But if you got any of those and you've got more code running in there than we intend just to make it
more readable.
So web developers typically will use the ability for javascript to create spacing to make it more readable.
And there's also a concern for javascript when it's minute fight and when the javascript code is mid-fi
basically what that means is that getting rid of all the excess whitespace and making the file size
smaller and allowing it to load quicker.
But when you're starting out you don't have to worry about that.
And the main thing is that your code is readable and that you can go through the code and you can consume
that code in a fairly easy manner.
The other thing was in Javascript you notice that at the end of each line I've got these semi-colons.
So the javascript itself it will still run without the semi-colons.
But we do use those.
So they are optional but it's another one of those really good coding practices that once you created
your statement you put a semi-colon in there just so that we know that this is the end of this particular
comment and Javascript really is about creating all of those commands and those instructions on how
to do something and once where once we're able to really isolate these instructions so this would be
step one.
This would be step two to render out all of that content.
And that's where we use the semi-colons to Vought to visibly divide those steps.
So what do you think.
Javascript so far.
It's really easy to start writing the code as we've seen.
It's also really easy to do something with just some simple lines of code so it can do quite a bit which
is already built into javascript with just one or two lines of code.
You can already have something happening within your web page and that's really the beauty of javascript
because that simplicity of that code in that light weight ability for that code to read out directly
within your browser is really important because this gets you started with javascript really quickly
and you can do a whole lot with just a little bit of code.
So what I want you to do now is to open up your J S file and try writing the document write yourself
a nice interesting message refresh your page and see a get rendered within each team L and the next
lesson.
We're going to go into looking at debugging because as we saw earlier that Javascript can actually tell
if there's an error and although javascript is very flexible and it's made to be very flexible when
it's rendering out that code and very forgiving I should say as it's rendering out that code it does.
It does run into some errors and those errors can really easily be read within the console.
And this gives us the ability to debug and fix those errors.
And there's also a way to communicate from our code into the console.
So as we develop an application you can pass that information.
So all of this is coming up in the next lesson.